Lucas's Reflection on "It Gets Easier"

It actually took me quite a bit of brainstorming (or at least more than usual) to come up with an idea for this soundscape project that I actually wanted to do and thought I could get done. I kept coming up with ideas revolving around the sound of a person walking down a busy street on an afternoon, with car sounds and breath sounds and walking sounds, because I like listening to that sort of stuff, especially in music. Tame Impala, one of my favorite bands, has several songs where voices, car noises, and sometimes ocean noises fade in and give this incredibly cool ambience to a track. However, as we discussed and read about, it's incredibly easy to make a cliche recording of cars passing that sounds like waves, or waves crashing that sounds like cars. I thought more about what sort of narrative I could create that I actually care about, and one of the things I care about most, which will get me to click on a Youtube video most often, is how to be healthier and happier. I thought it would be interesting (and possibly even helpful for me or others) to reconstruct the conversation that I have with myself when I don't want to do something that I should be doing. Running felt like an easy and obvious choice, and I could even include some of my much-beloved car sounds. I did most of my preliminary work making a script for the two voices that I would play, as well as the part my friend Colin would play. The scripts are hard to read and uninteresting, so I didn't put them in the repo. Since I didn't do a whole lot of work on actual recording at the start, I didn't get a whole lot done for my preview. 

Here's a screenshot of it:

It's essentially just me putting together one cycle of the background noises that would occur in the final product behind a run. I think it was a helpful way to get started.

Then, Colin and I recorded the script on a mic I have, and I recorded everything else needed (my voice parts, heavy breathing, yawn) and collected all of the sounds I would use and credited them. That part came together in a few hours, and I had a rough draft:

Then, once I got some feedback:

I went back and made a few small edits, like shortening (or attempting to, Audacity is not an easy editor to use), changing volumes, panning, and looking at reverb settings, based on the feedback above, and then called it good:

I think that I met all of the baseline criteria (it is hardly a few seconds over 4 minutes, and the editing required to make it 4 minutes long would have added nothing to the project, and possibly caused me to mess it up). I had layers, sounds recorded by me, sounds not recorded by me and credited correctly, I had plot and a clear ending, etc. As far as aspirational criteria: my repo and tracks were very neatly labeled and organized. I experimented with echo effects in Audacity that I'd never used before. I know that I used rather cliche background noises, but things like the heavy breathing, running noises, and conversations used were specific to me and my narrative given the surrounding context. The conversations happening were unique to me, because I wrote and voiced them, and they gave the running portion context such that it could be interpreted differently than in a vacuum. My use of panning for voices and relative volume of background tracks gave a sense of a 3D space. All of my feedback demonstrated that people heard what I intended for them to hear/interpret. I think the title helps key listeners in on an important piece of dialogue that holds the key to the narrative's moral. I also had human voices interacting and I think it was reasonably well edited, if I do say so myself. I enjoyed this project, too, if that matters.

